Write manual section on running timing benchmarks. (#5868)
geodynamics/aspect: doc/sphinx/user/extending/benchmarking-run-time.md

# Benchmarking run time

When changing code it can sometimes be useful to if and how much your code changes make the code faster or slower. To test this, one could compile and run aspect-release compiled from the main branch and from the branch with the changed code (e.g. feature branch) and time both. The problems is that is is not very reliable, given that your computer might be doing something on the background while you are running one, but not while you are running the other.

```{note}
When running timing benchmarks, always run in release mode.
```

> One solution is to this problem is to run both executables after each other in a random order. This is what the program [cbdr](https://crates.io/crates/cbdr) can do for you. It can then also analyze and report back the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One solution to this problem is to run both executables after each other in a random order. This is what the program [cbdr](https://crates.io/crates/cbdr) can do for you. It can also analyze and report back the result.
```

> This program can be installed with [cargo](https://crates.io/) (see Install Cargo button), with `cargo install cbdr`. To generate the run data, program is run with `cbdr sample --timeout=900s main:/path/to/build-main/aspect-release /path/to/test.prm features:/path/to/build-feature/aspect-release /path/to/test.prm > results.csv`. This first run runs both the main and feature branch executable to "warm up" and then it keeps randomly selection one of the two executables and write the timings out to `results.csv` until the timer reaches 900 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This program can be installed with [cargo](https://crates.io/) (see Install Cargo button), with `cargo install cbdr`. To generate the run data, the program is run with `cbdr sample --timeout=900s main:/path/to/build-main/aspect-release /path/to/test.prm features:/path/to/build-feature/aspect-release /path/to/test.prm > results.csv`. This command runs both the main and feature branch executable to "warm up" and then it keeps randomly selection one of the two executables and write the timings out to `results.csv` until the timer reaches 900 seconds.
```

The `results.csv` can then be summarized with `cbdr analyze <results.csv`, which produces the following output:

```
           main           feature        difference (99.9% CI)
sys_time   0.868 ± 0.071  0.916 ± 0.051  [  +1.5% ..   +9.7%]
user_time  7.216 ± 0.133  7.112 ± 0.100  [  -2.4% ..   -0.5%]
wall_time  6.556 ± 0.045  6.498 ± 0.046  [  -1.3% ..   -0.5%]
samples    66             74
```

> You can ignore the sys_time in the output above. I just shows how much time the programs spends on kernel calls. The user time is how much the program actually spending on the cpu and the wall time is how much time the program takes if you measure it by have a stop-watch next to your computer. In this case it is nearly the same, but if you run it with many processors, the user/cpu time might be much larger then the wall time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can ignore the sys_time in the output above. It just shows how much time the programs spends on operating system kernel calls. The user time is how much the program actually spends on your processor and the wall time is how much time the program takes if you measure it by having a stop-watch next to your computer. In this case it is nearly the same, but if you run it with many processors, the user time might be much larger then the wall time.
```

Reviewer: Can you also add a sentence here what the output means for this particular  case? I.e. is the main branch or the feature branch faster, and how do you see this from the numbers?

The `results.csv` can then be summarized with `cbdr analyze <results.csv`, which produces the following output:

```
           main           feature        difference (99.9% CI)
sys_time   0.868 ± 0.071  0.916 ± 0.051  [  +1.5% ..   +9.7%]
user_time  7.216 ± 0.133  7.112 ± 0.100  [  -2.4% ..   -0.5%]
wall_time  6.556 ± 0.045  6.498 ± 0.046  [  -1.3% ..   -0.5%]
samples    66             74
```

You can ignore the sys_time in the output above. It just shows how much time the programs spends on operating system kernel calls. The user time is how much the program actually spends on your processor and the wall time is how much time the program takes if you measure it by having a stop-watch next to your computer. In this case it is nearly the same, but if you run it with many processors, the user time might be much larger then the wall time.

> In this case the feature branch is, measure by th wall time, between 1.3% and 0.5% faster than the main branch with a 99.9% convidence iterval. This means that in this case we can have reasonable convidence that the  feature branch is a bit faster then the main branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case the feature branch is measured by the wall time between 1.3% and 0.5% faster than the main branch with a 99.9% confidence interval. This means that in this case we can have reasonable confidence that the  feature branch is a bit faster than the main branch.
```
